
  A LETTER TO A
  Gentleman in the Country,
  FROM
  His Friend in LONDON:
  Giving an
  Authentick and circumstantial Account of
  the Confinement, Behaviour, and Death of
  ADMIRAL BYNG,
  As attested by the Gentlemen who were present.


  _Mens conscia Recti._


  LONDON:

  Printed for and sold by J. LACY, the Corner of
  St. Martin's-Court, St. Martin's-Lane, near
  Leicester-Fields. MDCCLVII.

  [Price One Shilling.]




_Just published, and sold by_ J. Lacy, _at the Corner of_ St.
Martin's-Court, St. Martin's-Lane, _near_ Leicester-Fields.


I. Further Particulars in Relation to the Case of Admiral Byng, from
original Papers, by a Gentleman of Oxford. Price one Shilling.

II. A Collection of several Pamphlets very little known: Some suppressed
Letters, and sundry detached Pieces, relative to the Case of Admiral Byng.
Price one Shilling and Six-pence.

III. A further Address to the Publick; containing genuine Copies of all
the Letters which passed between Admiral Byng and the S------y of the
Ad----ty, from the Time of his Suspension to the 25th of October last.
Price one Shilling.

IV. The whole and genuine Trial of Admiral Byng, two Volumes Octavo. N. B.
For the better understanding of which, five curious Prints are added,
which exhibit the different Positions of both Fleets, before, at, and
after the Engagement. Price five Shillings.

V. Admiral Byng's Defence as presented by him, and read in the Court
Martial, on Board his Majesty's Ship St. George in Portsmouth-Harbour,
January, 18. 1757. Price Six-pence.

N. B. Most Money for any Library or Parcel of Books; Books elegantly
bound; and Gentlemen's Libraries gilt, or lettered, methodiz'd, and
Catalogues written either in Town or Country.




  A LETTER TO A
  Gentleman in the Country,
  FROM
  His Friend in LONDON, _&c._


DEAR SIR,

Agreeable to your request, I have taken great pains to collect all the
particulars, relating to the behaviour and death of the unfortunate
ADMIRAL BYNG.

You know me sufficiently, to be satisfied that I have never had any biass
in his favour, or against him. But as the whole affair has been laid
before the publick, sufficiently plain for every man of common sense, not
prejudiced, to understand it; excepting some _inexplicable_ Circumstances
relating to the _Court Martial_; I may be allowed to judge for myself, and
yield to truths which I think can admit of no farther controversy.

It is true, there are yet _sophisters_, who want to _impose_ upon us; but
I think their designs are easily seen through. It is impossible that any
impartial man should fail to observe the almost incredible pains taken to
misrepresent and blacken his publick and private character. Even now,
after he has paid the forfeit of his _life_, for _crimes_, at most, only
_disputably so_, there are a great number of emissaries, who seem to make
it their business to go from one coffee-house to another, spreading the
most scandalous reports with regard to his death. _Dying Speeches_,
containing the most _infamous absurdities_, have been imposed upon the
publick, with several booksellers names prefixed in the title-page, in
order to give them the air of authenticity.

For what end and purposes all these measures have been taken, they can
best tell, who have always been, and still continue so indefatigably
industrious. But I must confess they greatly raise my indignation; and I
am at last fully persuaded, _hidden political machinery_ has been employed
against this unfortunate gentleman. Our friend _D----_ says, _cunning
heads, black hearts, and long purses_. Indeed, I think it appears very
evident, that some persons are very active and solicitous to _load him_
with ignominious crimes, with a view _to exculpate themselves_, or others;
to render him odious in the eyes of the people, that his fall may be
unlamented. But can a generous nation, like this, where understanding
abounds, accept of his blood for the crimes of any other? surely, it
cannot be.

I believe you will agree with me in thinking, that the Admiral's behaviour
before and at the time of his death; his observations and conversation
with his friends; together with the paper containing his thoughts on the
occasion, wrote by himself, and signed, which he gave to the Marshal of
the Admiralty, immediately before the sentence passed upon him was put in
execution; must hereafter be his best APOLOGY, EXCULPATION, and ENCOMIUM;
must reflect honour upon his family, and be an _indelible reproach to some
of our cotemporaries_; who have practised every _wicked artifice, to
deceive and spirit up the people_, and to throw a mist over the whole of
this transaction.

Without any farther preamble, I shall proceed to give you a relation of
the particulars, as they are ascertained to me, by the concurring
testimony of gentlemen who were upon the spot; whose veracity cannot be
doubted, and whose authority to vouch them again, may be easily obtained.

As you have critically perused the trial and sentence, I presume you will
be pleased with some particulars as far back as the time of passing the
sentence.

On _Thursday_ the 27th of _January_, when the Admiral was sent for on
board the _St. George_ to receive his sentence, he declared to some of his
friends, that he expected to be reprimanded, and that he possibly might be
cashiered; "_because_, said he, _there must have been several controverted
points; the Court Martial has been shut up a long time; and almost all the
questions proposed by the Court have tended much more to pick out faults
in my conduct, than to get at a true state of the circumstances; but I
profess, I cannot conceive what they will fix upon_."

Soon after he got on board, and was in the cabbin upon the quarter-deck, a
member of the _Court Martial_ came out, and told one of his relations, he
had the Court's leave to inform him, they had found the Admiral capitally
guilty; in order that he might prepare him to receive the sentence. The
gentleman went up to him immediately; but was so surprised, he could not
tell how to inform him. The Admiral observing his countenance, said to
him, "_What is the matter? Have they broke me?_" The gentleman hesitating
in his reply, with some confusion of countenance, he added, "_Well, I
understand--If nothing but my Blood will satisfy, let them take it_."
Immediately after this, he was sent for into Court, where he continued to
be the only man that did not appear moved, while the sentence was reading
by the Judge-advocate; and went ashore afterwards with the same air and
composure that he came on board.

A gentleman afterwards endeavoured to give him consolation, by
representing to him, that a _sentence without guilt could be no stain_;
that it was highly improbable such a sentence would be put in execution,
considering the extraordinary circumstances attending it; and that there
was the greatest probability of a pardon. He replied, "_What will that
signify to me? What satisfaction can I receive from the liberty to crawl
a few years longer on the earth, with the infamous load of a Pardon at my
back? I despise life upon such terms, and would rather have them take
it_."

The gentleman then remarked to him, that his pardon must proceed from
justice rather than mercy; and must be more an acknowlegment of his
innocence, than a forgiveness of guilt: with that distinction he seemed
better satisfied, and reconciled to the thought.

Some days after the sentence was passed, he was conveyed on board the
_Monarque_, and confined in the captain's cabbin upon the quarter-deck.
And as soon as the warrant for his death arrived at _Portsmouth_, all his
friends who came to see him, were obliged to leave him before it was
dark, and go on shore. An additional number of marine officers and marines
were ordered on board that ship. An officer regularly mounted guard, and a
great number of centinels were placed, _viz._ two upon the fore-castle,
one over each side in the chains, two at the cabbin-door, two upon the
poop, two in a boat under the ship's stern, and, for some part of the
time, two in the stern-gallery; besides a guard-boat constantly rowing
round the ship during the night. These centinels had orders to call aloud
to each other, _all is well_, every five minutes throughout the night; by
which means, almost as soon as the last centinel had answered, it was
time for the first to begin again, and there was a perpetual round of,
_all is well_. This circumstance almost totally depriving the Admiral of
sleep, because the centinels were mostly close to him where he lay, made
him frequently say, "_I did hope for leave to sleep, and apprehend I might
be sufficiently guarded and taken care of, without so frequent a
repetition of this noisy ceremony close to my ear_."

At length the lieutenants of the ship had orders to watch in the great
cabbin, relieving each other every four hours, as is customary at sea: so
that there was always one of them in the cabbin with him day and night,
who delivered up the charge of the Admiral's person to the next officer,
keeping a journal, in which was minuted down every person's name who came
to him, the time when he came, and the time of his going away; and the
order to the centinels for calling out every five minutes, was then
omitted.

When captain _Montague_ waited upon him, to inform him that the warrant
from the Admiralty was come, for putting the sentence passed upon him in
execution, he received the news with the same cool composure, that he had
received the sentence; without discovering the smallest emotion,
depression of spirits, or alteration in his behaviour.

The same gentleman waited upon him again, on the 27th of _February_, being
the day before that which was appointed for his execution, and, in
Admiral _Boscawen_'s name, acquainted him that a respite was arrived for
fourteen days. He composedly desired his compliments to Admiral
_Boscawen_, with thanks for his intelligence, without appearing in the
smallest degree elevated, or even pleased beyond his usual. His friends,
on that occasion, represented to him what had passed in the House of
Commons, magnified and dwelt upon every favourable circumstance; and,
giving themselves up to joy, congratulated him on the certainty of an
honourable pardon, which they imagined must follow. He calmly replied, "_I
am glad you think so, because it makes you easy and happy; but I think it
is now become an affair merely_ political, _without any farther relation
to_ right or wrong, justice or injustice; _and therefore I differ in
opinion from you_."

During all the time of his confinement, his comportment was uniformly the
same; almost always chearful, sometimes, with decency, facetious. This
gave rise to a rumour that he expected a pardon, or meditated an escape;
which was most industriously propagated, to lessen the merit of his
behaviour, by the same instruments that had been always made use of to
wrest every circumstance to his disadvantage, and asperse him. Some of
those _wretches_ were employed, during his trial, to send up to town, for
the newspapers, _false minutes_ of the evidence; and to pick out such
passages as could be made to bear a harsh construction, or, by
_sophistical_ comments, be brought to carry the appearance of _guilt_, in
order to inflame the people, already prepossessed by similar practices.
The unwary were prejudiced by these arts, and joined in the cry against
him; but he defeated the further designs of his enemies, by preserving the
same equanimity to the last.

The nearer approach of death made no change in his manner. He had divine
service performed in the morning by the chaplain of the _Monarque_, and
usually spent the remainder of the day in conversation with his friends;
and sometimes in regulating his private family-affairs, when any thing
occurred to his memory as not properly settled agreeable to his intention.

On _Saturday_ the 12th of _March_, in the evening, when his friends were
going on shore as usual, he took leave of his two nephews in a tender
manner, and desired they would not come on board to him again, lest any
immoderate grief in them should soften him.

On _Sunday_ morning captain _Montague_, having received a warrant from
Admiral _Boscawen_ for his execution next day, gave it to the Marshal to
read to him; which he calmly heard read over, and then remarked, with some
warmth, that the place appointed by the warrant was upon the fore-castle.
"_Is not this_," said he, addressing himself to his friends, "_putting me
upon the footing of a common seaman, condemned to be shot? Is not this an
indignity to my birth, to my family, and to my rank in the service? I
think I have not been treated like an officer in any instance since I was
disgraced, excepting in that of being ordered to be shot_." He appeared
much disturbed at this circumstance, and looked upon it as a considerable
grievance. His friends, fearing it could not be altered, because the
warrant was expresly worded so, represented to him, that it appeared to
them an impropriety; but they hoped he would think the place immaterial, a
circumstance beneath his notice, and not let any such consideration break
in upon his tranquillity of mind. He then composed himself again, and
replied, "_It is very true, the place or manner is of no great importance
to me; but I think living Admirals should consult the dignity of the rank,
for their own sakes. I cannot plead a precedent: there is no precedent of
an Admiral, or a General Officer in the Army, being shot. They make a
precedent of me, such as Admirals hereafter may feel the Effects of_."

After this he appeared calm again; and in the forenoon heard prayers read
by the chaplain of the _Monarque_, and received the sacrament in a very
decent devout manner, with some of his relations and friends.

At dinner he was chearful as usual, very politely helped his friends, and
drank their healths; but did not sit long at table. In the afternoon he
frequently turned the conversation upon the place and manner of his
execution next day, at times expressing some uneasiness that the place
appointed should be the fore-castle: and perceiving that his friends
avoided the subject out of complaisance to him, sometimes telling him they
thought it improper, "_I like to talk upon the subject_," said he: "_It is
not to be supposed I do not think of it; why then should it be more
improper to talk of it?_"

He frequently observed how the wind was, and wished it might continue
westerly long enough for the members of his Court Martial, who were upon
the point of sailing, to be present at the time the sentence passed upon
him was put in execution.

About six he ordered tea, as usual, for himself and his company; and
remarking that his friends took notice of his easy manner and
conversation, "_I have observed_, said he, _that persons condemned to die,
have generally had something to be sorry for, that they have expressed
concern for having committed; and though I do not pretend to have been
exempt from human frailties, yet it is my consolation to have no remorse
for any transaction in my publick character, during the whole series of my
long services_."

One of his friends observed to him, that no man was exempt from human
frailties; that what came under that denomination were not crimes
cognisable here, or supposed to be so hereafter. He replied, "_I am
conscious of no crimes; and am particularly happy in not dying the mean,
despicable, ignominious wretch, my enemies would have had the world
believe me. I hope I am not supposed so now; the Court Martial has
acquitted me of every thing criminal or ignominious_." One of his friends
assured him, that none called or thought him so, but obstinately
prejudiced persons, and his enemies, interested to deceive the world
still; neither of whom would ever own themselves convinced by reasons: at
which he seemed much pleased.

In this manner he passed the day, generally walking about the cabbin, as
is customary on board a ship, to supply the place of exercise; and
retiring for a few minutes into the state-room[1], sometimes with one
friend, sometimes with another, when he had any thing particular to say to
them.

In the evening his friends, desirous to be with him a little longer that
night than had been permitted before, on purpose to entertain him, and
enjoy his conversation for a last time, sent to Admiral _Boscawen_,
requesting that indulgence; which was granted for as long as they
pleased; but he himself desired they would not exceed the hour of eight,
being then about seven: and added, that as they would be so obliging as to
pass the evening with him, he must ask them to drink a glass with him. He
then ordered a small bowl of punch to be made; and when all were seated
round the table, he obligingly helped every one, and taking his own glass
with a little punch in it, "_My friends_, said he, _here is all your
healths, and God bless you all: I am pleased to find I have some friends
still, notwithstanding my misfortunes_." When he had drank, and set his
glass down, he added, "_I am to die to-morrow; and as my country requires
my blood, I am ready to resign it, though I do not as yet know what my
crime is. I think my judges, in justice to posterity, to officers who come
after us, should have explained my crime a little more, and pointed out
the way to avoid falling into the same errors I did. As the sentence and
resolutions stand now, I am persuaded no Admiral will be wiser hereafter
by them, or know better how to conduct himself on the like occasion_."
Observing one of the company who had his eyes attentively fixed upon him,
while he was speaking, "_My friend_," said he, "_I understand reproof in
that grave look. It is a long time since I have spoke so much upon the
subject, and you now think I say too much: perhaps I do so_." "Far from
presuming to mean any reproof," answered the gentleman, "I am all
attention to what you say, Sir; and though all of us here are satisfied of
these truths, yet we must be pleased to hear you make them plainer." "_Be
it so_," replied he; "_but I shall only add one remark more. I am supposed
not to have relieved and assisted the van: who then did assist the van,
and relieve the three disabled ships, who were upon the brink of being
attacked by the body of the enemy? Though the enemy did fire upon them[2],
there is but one witness who says they received damage at that time. May
not that one witness be mistaken, who was on board the ship considerably
the farthest removed from the enemy of the three, and who had dropt there
out of her station, by being disabled before? And why did the enemy bear
away from these ships, if it was not because my division was under sail
close after them, in a regular line of battle?_"

Here the Admiral stopt; and the conversation for a few minutes turning
upon other subjects, he desired to be particularly remembered to several
absent friends. The time he appointed for his friends to go ashore drawing
near, he got up, and withdrew into the state-room with one of them at a
time; and thanking each in a very pathetick manner, for their acts of
friendship and services, he embraced them, and took his leave; with
intention, as he told them, to spare them the disagreeable and painful
office, as his friends, of seeing him next day. But they intreating leave
to pay their last respects and services to him in the morning, he
consented. One of them observing the Admiral softened into tears upon the
occasion, said to him, "Pray, Sir, don't suffer yourself to be
discomposed." He replied, "_I have not a heart of stone; I am a man, and
must feel at parting with my friends; but you will not see me discomposed
to-morrow_." He then dismissed them all, wished them a good night, and
desired they would come to him next day at nine; chusing to have the
morning to himself.

He carefully avoided desiring any thing himself, that could look like a
favour; but one of his relations waited upon Admiral _Boscawen_ that
evening, and represented to him, that appointing the fore-castle for the
place of execution was an indignity to Admiral _Byng_'s rank, and hoped
that he would change the place to the quarter-deck. Admiral _Boscawen_
said, the order from the admiralty expresly appointed it so; but if it was
his request, he would consider of it, and do what lay in his power. The
gentleman replied, _I do make it my request, Sir_; and Admiral _Boscawen_,
after considering a little, promised to give directions that the
quarter-deck should be the place; which was done accordingly.

When the officers, who watched in the great cabbin with the Admiral,
relieved each other in the night, the officer who was relieved, always
made it a rule, at twelve at night, and at four in the morning, to go into
the state-room with the other, to show that the Admiral was there, and
deliver over his charge. They seldom found him awake at these hours; but
that last night, in particular, they found him both times in a profound
sleep.

It was his custom to rise early, and to banter the Marshal for being
seldom up so early as him. He was up on _Monday_ morning about five; and
as soon as he saw the Marshal, about six, "_Well_," said he, "_Marshal, I
think I have beat you at rising this morning_." Soon after, when he was
shifting, as he constantly did every morning betimes, "_Here_," said he to
his valet, "_take these sleeve-buttons, and wear them for my sake; your's
will do to be buried with_." Having directed that he should be put into
his coffin with his cloaths as he died: recollecting himself, he added,
"_But hold--as these buttons are gold, my giving them to you may be
doubted, and you may be drawn into a scrape_." Then desired the Marshal,
and one of his servants, might be called to witness the exchange.

He spent a considerable part of the morning in the state-room by himself:
then came out, and sat down with the Marshal, and breakfasted composedly,
as usual. His dress was a plain cloth suit, a light grey mixture, such as
he had always wore after he received his order of suspension in
_Gibraltar_-bay; having stripped off his uniform, which he immediately
threw into the sea, as soon as he had read that order.

At nine, when his friends came on board, in a familiar easy manner, he
took each by the hand, and obligingly inquired after their health: and
being informed that the quarter-deck was now the place appointed for his
execution, in consideration of his rank, he was greatly pleased at it. He
then spoke about an erasement in his will, which he had recollected;
mentioning the sheet, the number of the line from the top, and the words
erased. He expressed some uneasiness at that circumstance, and said, that
though he did not apprehend such a circumstance would occasion any dispute
amongst his relations, yet believing that erasement not mentioned as is
customary upon the will, he thought it proper something should be drawn
up, as an acknowlegment that the erasement was agreeable to his intention;
which being done in the manner he desired, he copied it himself, signed
it, and desired three gentlemen present to witness it.

After this the Admiral appeared satisfied, as if he had no farther
concerns to think of; and had the morning-service performed by the
chaplain of the _Monarque_.

The rest of his time was mostly spent in walking across the cabbin,
conversing sometimes with one friend, sometimes with another. He had
always declared that he would die with his face uncovered, and would give
the word of command to the platoon of marines himself; saying, "_As it is
my fate, I can look at it, and receive it_."

As the time drew near, his friends unanimously endeavoured to dissuade him
from it; frequently half gained his consent to have his face covered, and
he as frequently retracted, and said, "_No--it cannot be--I cannot bear
it--I must look, and receive my fate_." But by representing to him, that,
considering his rank, it was impossible the marines could receive the
word of command from him, or look in his face, and see him looking at
them, without being awed and intimidated; by hinting at the consequences
which might ensue, that he might be wounded only, and mangled; and by
adding every sort of argument and intreaty, he at last was prevailed upon
and consented to have a bandage over his eyes, and to make a signal by
dropping a handkerchief, though with very great reluctance: "_If it must
be so_, said he, _and you insist, it must be so_."

He then desired to be made acquainted with all the particulars of the
form, that he might make no mistake; telling his friends, that he had
never been present at such a ceremony himself. Proposed pulling off his
coat; and when one of his friends informed him that was quite unnecessary,
"_But_, said he, _it may be said I kept my coat on as if afraid to receive
the blow, or feel the bullets_." "No," answered the gentleman, "such a
remark can never be made; and it must be more decent to make no alteration
in dress." "_Well then_, replied he, _if it is more decent, no alteration
shall be made_."

The commanding officer of the marines was informed of the Admiral's
intentions, and the signal he was to make, that he might instruct his men;
and at the same time was desired to let them know they should have a
present of ten guineas, to encourage them to behave properly. The marines
were all drawn up under arms, upon the poop, along the gang-ways in the
waist, and on one side of the quarter-deck. On the other side of the
quarter-deck was thrown a heap of saw-dust, and a cushion placed upon it;
and in the middle, upon the gratings, a platoon consisting of nine marines
were drawn up in three lines, three in each: the two foremost lines,
intended to fire, had their bayonets fixed, as is customary on such
occasions.

The captains of all the ships in _Portsmouth_-harbour, and at _Spithead_,
were ordered to attend with their boats; but lay a-breast upon their
oars[3], without coming on board, to avoid the inconvenience of so great
a croud as that would have occasioned.

The Admiral, about eleven, as he walked across the cabbin, observed the
croud of boats out of one of the side cabbin-windows, took his
spying-glass and viewed several of them; and perceiving many boats from
the shore, as well as the ship-boats, and the decks, shrouds, and yards of
all the ships that lay near, covered with men, said he, "_Curiosity is
strong--it draws a great number of people together--but their curiosity
will be disappointed:--where they are, they may hear, but they cannot
see_."

Perceiving the Marshal had his uniform and sword on, speaking softly to
one of his friends, "_Do you observe_," said he, "_how well dressed the
Marshal is?_" "Yes," answered the gentleman; "I dare say, Sir, he intends
paying the last piece of respect to you that he can." "_I am sensible he
means well_," replied he, "_and I accept the compliment_." The gentleman
added, "To see you so easy and composed, Sir, gives me as much pleasure as
I can have on this occasion; but I expected no less from the whole of your
conduct heretofore, and the last actions of a man marks his character more
than all the others of his life." "_I am sensible they do, Sir_," replied
he, "_and obliged to you for putting me in mind. I find innocence is the
best foundation for firmness of mind_."

After that, he walked about in the cabbin for some time; inquired what
time it would be high-water; remarked that the tide would not suit to
carry his body ashore after dark; expressed some apprehensions, that his
body might be insulted going ashore in the day, on account of the
prejudices of the people: but, on being assured that no such spirit was
remaining among the people at _Portsmouth_, he appeared very well
satisfied on that head. Then taking a paper out of his pocket, he
addressed himself to the Marshal as follows: "_Sir, these are my thoughts
on this occasion: I shall give them to you, that you may authenticate
them, and prevent any thing spurious being published, that might tend to
defame me. I have given a copy to one of my relations_."

The paper was wrote in his own hand, and contained as follows:

     _On board his Majesty's ship_ Monarque _in_ Portsmouth-_harbour_,
     March 14, 1757.

     "_A few moments will now deliver me from the virulent persecutions,
     and frustrate the farther malice of my enemies;--nor need I envy them
     a life subject to the sensations my injuries, and the injustice done
     me, must create.--Persuaded I am justice will be done to my
     reputation hereafter.--The manner and cause, of raising and keeping
     up the popular clamour and prejudice against me, will be seen
     through.--I shall be considered, (as I now perceive myself) a victim,
     destined to divert the indignation and resentment of an injured and
     deluded people, from the proper objects.--My enemies themselves,
     must, now, think me innocent,--Happy for me at this last moment, that
     I know_ my own _innocence, and am conscious, that no part of my
     country's misfortunes can be owing to me.--I heartily wish the
     shedding my blood may contribute to the happiness and service of my
     country;--but cannot resign my just claim to a faithful discharge of
     my duty, according to the best of my judgment, and the utmost
     exertion of my ability, for his Majesty's honour and my country's
     service.--I am sorry that my endeavours were not attended with more
     success, and that the armament under my command proved too weak to
     succeed, in an expedition of such moment.--_Truth _has prevailed over
     calumny and_ falshood, _and justice has wiped off the ignominious
     stain of my_ supposed _want of personal courage, or disaffection--my
     heart acquits me of these crimes,--but who can be presumptuously sure
     of his own judgment?--If my crime is an error in judgment, or_
     differing _in opinion from my judges; and if yet, the_ error _in
     judgment should be on their side,--God forgive them, as I do; and
     may,_ the distress of their minds, and uneasiness of their
     consciences, which in justice to me _they have represented, be
     relieved, and subside, as my resentment has done.--The supreme Judge
     sees all hearts and motives, and to him I must submit the Justice of
     my cause._"

     J. BYNG.

Soon after he had so spoke, an officer came to the cabbin-door, and in a
low voice informed one of his friends the hour of twelve was drawing near.
He, overhearing, replied, "_It is very well_;" and retired into the
state-room for about three minutes. In the mean time the cabbin-doors
were thrown open, and the Admiral, opening the state-room-door, came out,
with a stately pace and composed countenance: he made a bow to his friends
in the cabbin, and speaking to the Marshal, "_Come along_," said he, "_my
friend_;" and walked out upon the quarter-deck. Then turning to the
Marshal, with an easy bow, he gave him the paper, containing as above,
saying, "_Remember, Sir, what I have told you relating to this paper_;"
and went to the cushion and kneeled down. One of his friends attended him
to the cushion, and offered to tie the bandage over his eyes; but having a
white handkerchief ready folded in his hand, he replied, with a smile on
his countenance, "_I am obliged to you, Sir--I thank God, I can do it
myself--I think I can--I am sure I can_;" and tied it behind his head
himself. Then taking the gentleman by the hand, "_God bless you, my
friend_," said he; "_don't stay longer here; they may shoot you_." The
marines, in the mean time, advanced about two paces, and, as soon as the
gentleman retired, presented their pieces; the first line kneeling, their
bayonets about half a yard from his breast; the second stooping, and close
to the first; the third line standing upright, were appointed a reserve,
in case any life should remain after the two first had fired. The Admiral
continued upon his knees something more than a minute, appearing very
composed, and to be making an ejaculation; and then dropped his
handkerchief, the signal agreed upon. The platoon immediately fired; one
missed, four passed thorough different parts of his breast, and one
through his heart, and he sunk down motionless, gently falling on his
side, as if still studious to preserve _decency_ and _dignity_ in his
FALL.

The spectators were amazed at the intrepidity of his behaviour, and scarce
could refrain from tears; even the common seamen, one of whom having stood
all the while full of attention, with his arms across, cried out, with a
kind of enthusiasm, when he saw him fall, _There lies the bravest and best
officer of the navy_. The _Ramillies_, the ship he had his flag on board
of, breaking loose from her moorings, immediately after his death,
induced the people to believe that she sympathized with her Admiral.

His coffins were made at _Portsmouth_ two days before, and sent on board
early that morning; one of wood inclosed in one of lead, and that again
inclosed in another of wood. On that of lead was the following plain
inscription:

  THE HON. JOHN BYNG, ESQR.
  DIED MARCH 14th, 1756.

As soon as his body was cold, it was put into his coffin, and sent on
shore to the Dock-yard in the evening; from whence it has been since
removed to the family burying-place at _South-Hill_ in _Bedfordshire_.

Thus did this _unfortunate_ but _undaunted Gentleman_, arrive at a place
of rest, whose sentence explained, as an Epitaph, would do him honour; who
to the last moment asserted his innocence, and assured us that he has been
violently _persecuted_ by party rage; treated with many _unprecedented
indignities_ and _hardships_; _calumniated_ and _misrepresented_ to the
people, who had been prepossessed by the early intrigues of his _enemies_,
in order to _screen themselves_; and at last _sacrificed_, to appease the
_misguided resentment_ of the nation. His fate is now lamented by far the
majority of people of understanding, who see through the mist, and are
disposed to view him in the same light. Posterity, in spite of slander,
will undoubtedly do justice to his injured character and honour. In all
probability, the present age will set the example, when our Patriots have
unravelled the Mystery.

So much fortitude and firmness of mind, so heroick a manner of dying,
under a cloud of prejudices and misfortunes, cannot fail to be the result
and clearest demonstration of innocence, and a mind conscious of a proper
discharge of its duty.

        _I am, Sir,
            Yours_, &c.

  London, March
  25th, 1757.

_P. S._ I have purposely informed you of several minute particulars,
because they have been much the subject of conversation, and very
whimsically and maliciously described by the authors of _Pamphlets_,
composed of _common Reports_ and _Scraps_ from _News-papers_.


FINIS.




Footnotes:

[1] The apartment where the captain sleeps, so called on board a ship.

[2] It does not appear that a single man was killed on board either of
these ships, when the enemy passed them.

[3] That is, from time to time, rowing a little, when it is necessary, to
keep in the same place.




Transcriber's Notes:

Passages in italics are indicated by _underscore_.

Long "s" has been modernized.






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of A Letter to a Gentleman in the
Country, from His Friend in London, by Anonymous

